{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil Tahoma;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs16 The Open Distribution System Simulator, OpenDSS
\par 
\par Copyright (c) 2008-2020, Electric Power Research Institute, Inc.
\par All rights reserved.
\par 
\par Version 9.\f1 1.3.1\f0 
\par 
\par Changes this version
\par ====================
\par - COM and DLL interfaces have been updated to allow the progress form to appear if required
\par - Storage controller was upgraded to allow multiple targets for seasonal simulations
\par 
\par The Version 8 was the first to be delivered with parallel processing capabilities in both 32-bit (X86) and 
\par 64-bit (X64) versions. Version 9 is the latest update. The files are still listed under the 'Version8' folder on Sourceforge.net.
\par The OpenDSSInstaller download includes both X86 and X64 versions of Version 9, along 
\par with optional documentation and examples.  
\par 
\par If you have 64-bit Windows, you may install both the 64-bit and 32-bit 
\par versions.  The 32-bit version is required if you plan to automate OpenDSS 
\par from Excel or any other 32-bit program.  The 64-bit version is required to 
\par automate OpenDSS from 64-bit MatLab or other 64-bit apps on a 64-bit system.  
\par 
\par Installation
\par ============
\par 
\par The installer will give you a choice to install the executables and 
\par optional files under a target directory of your choice, such as 
\par c:\\opendss.  Files that are specific to the 32-bit version will be written 
\par to an x86 subdirectory, such as c:\\opendss\\x86.  Files that are specific 
\par to the 64-bit version will be written to an x64 subdirectory, such as 
\par c:\\opendss\\x64.  The EXE and DLL files should not be moved after 
\par installation, but may be updated in place with newer versions.
\par   
\par On a 64-bit system, you may install and use both the 32-bit and 64-bit 
\par versions with no conflict between them.  
\par 
\par Short-cuts to the program and manual are created under Start Menu/OpenDSS.
\par Please see the manual, OpenDSSManual.PDF, for an overview of the program. 
\par The most up-to-date reference information will always be found through the 
\par software's "Help / DSS Help" menu command.
\par 
\par If you have an earlier version of OpenDSS installed and registered, such as 7.4.3,
\par remove it completely. Otherwise, Windows may retain a registry entry to the
\par old 32-bit COM server when you start it up from a 32-bit program.
\par 
\par COM Automation
\par ==============
\par 
\par The COM Server in OpenDSSEngine.DLL may be automated.  The installer will 
\par register either or both versions, depending on your selection.  Even 
\par though the file names and registration commands match, they are in 
\par separate locations and Windows will activate the correct version required 
\par by the calling program.  For example, 64-bit MatLab will call the 64-bit 
\par OpenDSSEngine.DLL and 32-bit Microsoft Excel will call the 32-bit version.  
\par (Note: The 64-bit version of Excel is rarely installed.) 
\par 
\par Background
\par ==========
\par 
\par The OpenDSS is a simulator specifically designed to represent electric 
\par power distribution circuits.  OpenDSS is designed to support most types of 
\par power distribution planning analysis associated with the interconnection 
\par of distributed generation (DG) to utility systems.  It also supports many 
\par other types of frequency-domain circuit simulations commonly performed on 
\par utility electric power distribution systems.  It represents unbalanced 
\par conditions, stochastic processes, and other aspects of electrical power 
\par distribution systems and equipment in far greater detail than many other 
\par tools, including commercial products.  Through COM and scripting 
\par interfaces, other programs can drive OpenDSS in highly customized 
\par simulations, Monte Carlo analysis, etc.  Users can define their own models 
\par through dynamic linking, scripting, or automation.  
\par 
\par Electric Power Research Institute, Inc.  (http://www.epri.com) uses 
\par OpenDSS in its research and services work, and continues to enhance the 
\par software.  Earlier proprietary versions were used in dozens of studies for 
\par electric utility clients, and in a Web-based wind power simulator.  
\par There were several goals in making OpenDSS an open-source project in 2008: 
\par 
\par 1 - Enhance the modeling capabilities available to government 
\par laboratories, universities, and other researchers engaged in grid 
\par modernization work.  
\par 
\par 2 - Encourage interfaces between OpenDSS and complementary tools, such as 
\par communication system simulators or model compilers.  
\par 
\par 3 - Encourage the adoption of items 1 and 2 into commercial products used 
\par by electric utilities.  
\par 
\par 4 - Encourage collaborative efforts between industry, government, and 
\par university researchers in power distribution system analysis for grid 
\par modernization efforts.  
\par 
\par 5 - Provide a capable testing platform for data and object modeling 
\par efforts currently underway in the electric utility industry.
\par 
\par Source Code
\par ===========
\par 
\par The programming language for OpenDSS is Delphi 
\par (http://www.embarcadero.com), currently version Delphi 10.4 Sydney.  A free community version is available
\par to certain non-commercial users (see license requirements on Embarcadero site).
\par There is also a Free Pascal (Lazarus) version of the program.  Some of the supporting modules may 
\par require a C++ compiler to build from source.  OpenDSS source code is 
\par available from the following SVN repository: 
\par 
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/
\par 
\par 
\par Third-party Components
\par ======================
\par 
\par KLUSolve.DLL is open source software, available from
\par www.sourceforge.net/projects/klusolve
\par 
\par Other convenient Sourceforge.net Links
\par ======================================
\par 
\par OpenDSS Download Files:
\par 
\par http://sourceforge.net/projects/electricdss/files/
\par 
\par Getting Started
\par 
\par http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/electricdss/index.php?title=Getting_Started
\par 
\par Latest Tech Notes in Wiki
\par 
\par Selected Tech Notes are available in the Doc Folder
\par 
\par Questions and Answers
\par 
\par Selected Q&A files are available in the Doc Folder
\par 
\par OpenDSS Forum
\par 
\par http://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/discussion/861976/
\par 
\par What is Unique About OpenDSS?
\par 
\par OpenDSS was derived from a family of power system harmonics solvers designed for analysis of distributions systems. This analysis requires very detailed models of the circuit topology. This gives the program the capability to represent nearly any circuit topology that might be encountered on a power distribution system. While the power flow solution is the most common application, the program is technically not a power flow program. The solution method and circuit modeling has more in common with harmonics and dynamics solvers.
\par 
\par The program was developed because users realized in 1996 that they were not getting the correct answer for distributed generation problems when using only the typical static power flow analysis used for distribution planning. OpenDSS was one of the first programs to implement an efficient quasi-static time series (QSTS) simulation for DER analysis. The capability was built into the program from the start.
\par 
\par It was recognized that it is not possible to anticipate everything that users will want to do in DER analysis and build a single user interface for this. This issue was addressed by building the program around a scripting interface that is user defined. Also, the COM interface was added so that users could drive the program from other software such as MATLAB and Python. This feature is popular among researchers and graduate students who want to do things not already supported in the program. Of course, EPRI uses this feature extensively in its research. A direct function call DLL interface (OpenDSSDirect.DLL) was also developed to allow this feature to be used on platforms and computer languages that do not support COM.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par IEEE Test Cases
\par 
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/IEEETestCases/
\par 
\par EPRI Test Circuits
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/EPRITestCircuits/
\par 
\par Source Code
\par 
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Source/
\par 
\par Top level of Distribution area (Releases)
\par 
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/
\par 
\par Examples
\par 
\par https://sourceforge.net/p/electricdss/code/HEAD/tree/trunk/Version8/Distrib/Examples/
\par 
\par License
\par =======
\par 
\par Use of this software is subject to a license. The terms are in:
\par 
\par  1 - A file called "license.txt" distributed with the software,
\par  2 - The user manual, and
\par  3 - The executable program's Help/About dialog box
\par 
\par }
 